The actual confirmation of the account might look like the simplest part,
but it actually has the most work to do as far as
moving data around on the back end.
The view is simply just what you see here,
but we need to go ahead and move the token and account out of
the table that we had and move them over to the users table
and associate roles with them.
So we're going to do a lot of work in the service and
repository tiers to move this information around,
and then it's all done.
These are all the pieces that we needed to go through
the entire confirmation process.
I've gone ahead and closed down all of the open files that we had,
because we just had half of our project open while we were working on it,
and we're just doing the final confirmation step of this.
So, I've opened up our AccountController.
I'm going to add another method below here,
and it is a GetMapping for accountConfirm.
And inside of here, we are going to look for the RequestParameter token,
you can tell by the @RequestParam annotation where we grab token,
and that's what's built in the email that we sent out,
and then we're going to call confirmAccount on our accountService.
Now, if we open up our AccountServiceImpl and look at it,
confirmAccount is empty,
and this is what we're going to go ahead and start putting all the
details in of what it means to actually confirm account.
And there's some round‑tripping with the database and looking up of the token,
so let's go ahead and start pseudo coding that out so we can see these steps
that we need to do. And that's going to look like this.
We're going to retrieve the token from the database,
then verify the date,
then move the user from the account table to the userdetails table,
create the userdetails object, delete from accounts,
and then finally delete from tokens if all of these things
flow in order and go how they should.
So let's start by retrieving that token. And we're going
to store that in a VerificationToken,
so we'll say VerificationToken verificationToken is
equal to accountRepository.findByToken,
and we'll pass in the token string that we have.
And we haven't created this method yet, so let's hover over that red helper,
we'll click findToken and save this, and if we open up our AccountRepository,
it'll ask us if we want to go ahead and implement those fields.
We can go to the top of our class and say Implement
methods, and OK. Let me make this full screen so that you
can see it a little bit easier.
I am going to paste in this already created,
because it is a little bit of typing to do,
and in the lieu of time, and import these so we have all of our pieces here.
And let me walk through this code with you.
Same as before, we created a JdbcTemplate,
put our dataSource in the constructor of that.
We're doing a queryForObject, as you can see here,
so we're saying template.queryForObject,
where we have the SQL that we're passing into it,
select username, token, expiry_date,
from verification_tokens where token =?, and then we'll use
the varargs to pass in what that value is.
Then we do an anonymous inner class,
which is really common to do in this type of query,
where we pass in a new RowMapper on the object VerificationToken,
and the mapRow method takes and looks for username,
token,
and expiry_date, and we're expecting one of these to come back so that's
why it is a queryForObject and not a queryForList,
builds that object,
and then you can see at the very bottom here on my line 58 there is a token,
and that is that varargs that's getting passed into that
question mark in our SQL statement.
And then finally,
all of that gets returned on line 59 back to our calling method,
so that that'll walk clear back out to our AccountServiceImpl
where we have here our VerificationToken.
Now let's verify the date that gets returned.
We're actually going to do this very simply by looking at
the date that comes out of our object,
which was our verificationToken where we calculated the expiration
date, and what this is simply doing is looking to see if that date
is after the date that we set to expire.
So if the date of now, or our current time,
is after the expiration date, then we know it's still good.
If it's before it,
then we know that our expiration date has in fact
expired and we shouldn't allow this,
which you should probably throw an exception and handle it from here,
but we're just trying to show the best‑case, happy‑path scenario here.
So if this data is valid,
now the next step that we want to do is go ahead and
call the accountRepository again.
So we'll say Account account is equal to
accountRepository.findByUsername. And we're going to go ahead and
use our verificationToken and get the username out of that.
And just like the findByToken,
we can hover over that red findByUsername and click Create findByUsername.
And if we save this, then in our AccountRepository it'll
give us the option to create this as well.
And like I mentioned before, you can use Hibernate to do this,
it's the same thing.
This is a little bit clearer, and if you're working with an existing data model,
it's actually a little easier.
It's a little bit more work up front to type the queries in,
but it's a lot better way to go.
So, I'm going to go ahead and paste that in there, as you just saw,
for our findByUsername, and this is just like the other query that we just did.
If I get this down to another line so you can see it,
we have the findByUsername, we create a JdbcTemplate,
it's also a queryForObject, we're getting one object returned.
In fact,
you can copy the one we did up above or you could grab the source code
out of the exercise files or out of my GitHub repo.
But you can see here we're doing a select username,
firstname, lastname,
password from accounts where username is equal to question mark.
Question mark is going to take that varargs of our username from down below.
We have an anonymous inner class of a new RowMapper on the Account object,
which takes the firstname, lastname, username,
password, returns all of that information,
and sets it on that Account object,
and that eventually returns everything back to our AccountService,
where we can now move to creating the user details.
Now we need to create our userDetails object,
which is an object that we used earlier in this course,
and that is simply a ConferenceUserDetails object.
And all this is,
is simply an instance of the ConferenceUserDetails, which
extends Spring's UserDetails object,
and we take and build that out with the username and
password that we had stored by the token,
and that is the encrypted password.
It's not declared text.
I can't stress that enough.
And then we give it a basic role inside of our application.
We haven't gone over roles yet, that's actually in a later module,
but we give it a role of _user, just the simplest basic role we can.
From here,
we haven't created anything, we've created this object, now we need
to go store this userDetails in our database.
And to do that, we're going to call accountRepository.createUserDetails,
and we will pass in our userDetails object that we just created here,
and save that.
And, again, we haven't created this method yet either,
so we'll hover over that, add that to our interface,
and we'll save this and go into our AccountRepository,
which will give us the option to create that unimplemented method in here.
And there is a shortcut to do this is well, but this works for us.
And down below here we're going to do another JdbcTemplate.
And that is very simple, we just INSERT INTO users username,
password, and enabled,
and we grab out of that userDetails object our username and password.
And we can save this.
We've got to do the same thing with our authorities on
the other end that we just created,
so let's go back to our ServiceImpl, and we want to say
accountRepository.createAuthorities.
And we will also pass in the userDetails for that as well,
because we just stored the authorities inside that userDetails object.
Now, when we save this, we're going to get the same thing.
We hover over our red createAuthorities,
we can create the method createAuthorities in our AccountRepository interface.
And just a reminder, why do we want to do all the interfaces and all this stuff,
it's because with Spring we can use it for unit testing,
we can actually detach our code if the database tables aren't ready, and
stub this out so that we're not held up on specific pieces,
and it makes our application more modular and testable.
Now inside of our AccountRepository, we can hover over the class definition
and choose Implement methods again, and go down below.
And this is very similar to what we just did with the createUserDetails,
except now we're going to iterate over a list.
And so we can insert this in here. I've got a JdbcTemplate that we
pass in a dataSource just like we have been doing,
but now I grab an Iterator on GrantedAuthority from the
userDetails.getAuthorities object.
And this, while there are things to iterate over,
inserts into the authorities table the username and
the authority value into that table.
And this is a very important step. If you skip this,
even though you have a valid username and password,
it will not let you log in,
because it says they have no rights inside of the
application and we'll treat it as bad credentials.
At this point,
our application will actually log in and will create and confirm the account.
What we don't have, though, is any cleanup done or a page that shows us that,
hey, your account has finally been confirmed.
So, we're going to implement these two simple delete statements
really quick and then a splash page for us to land on when we
are done confirming the account,
but functionality‑wise it's actually working right now if you
ran it, it just won't clean up after itself.
Deleting from the accounts and tokens tables is really quite easy to do.
So we'll just say accountRepository.delete,
and since this is the main object that the accountRepository is built upon,
we'll just pass in account here, and save this.
When we hover over this,
we can get our implementation to create that in our interface.
And if we go to our implementation, the same as before,
we can get the opportunity to implement that method.
And inside of here,
all we're going to do is call a DELETE FROM accounts
where the username is equal to this, and pass in the account.username,
and save this.
And it's the same thing for the tokens, so we'll accountRepository.deleteToken,
and pass in token, and save that.
And we have not created that either.
This is the last one we have to create.
Create that method, save this,
and go into our AccountRepository and implement that.
This has been a whole bunch of SQL.
This is the last one.
We'll Implement methods, click OK,
and this SQL is very similar to what we just did up above,
JdbcTemplate, new JdbcTemplate with the dataSource.
We're deleting from VerificationTokens,
where the token is equal to question mark,
and it's just that token that we passed in from the actual confirmation email.
All of the pieces are in place.
Let's go back to our AccountServiceImpl,
we've fulfilled all the requirements there.
Going back to our Controller,
our Controller is going to return a view of accountConfirmed.
And we don't have a JSP page for that yet,
so let's just hurry and put a splash page in there,
nothing too serious.
We can, in fact, open up our account page that we've created and copy that,
and right‑click on jsp and say New, JSP,
and we'll call this accountConfirmed, and save that.
Then highlight all of this, and override that.
We're going to change the title to Account Confirmed.
And we can come down to the form down below here and get
rid of just about everything down here.
We've got this form inside of here, we can get rid of that.
And we'll have a very basic div that we're going to just give it a class.
Since we've styled our page with Twitter Bootstrap,
we can say class= and do an alert inside of here.
So we'll say alert alert‑success.
And the role is of type alert.
And inside of our div we can say Your account has been confirmed.
Let's save this.
Now, we can fire our application back up and go back over to our page,
and when we enter that in,
it should do the full round‑trip and clean up after itself even.
We go to our Account page and give it a valid username,
something that we haven't already used.
The First Name and Last Name can be reused.
And then I am going to give it a valid email address.
We'll want to do that, because if not,
all the work we just did will be for nothing.
And I can give it whatever password, and click Submit.
It's gone round‑trip now.
We could put one of those same alert boxes here on this page to notify you.
If we go into our email and click Refresh,
you'll see the Account Confirmation link,
and we can click on this link and it will open up a new page,
and should confirm our account as well. And you can see now it's been confirmed.
If we pull up a new browser and go to it,
we can log in with the username and password that you just created,
and everything works.
We have done the full round‑tripping, fired off emails,
set up all the configuration to do it, the confirmation, tokens,
hashed passwords,
everything as you would in a full‑fledge production system inside your application now.